---
title: एलवालु
---

# elavAlu

<i>elavālu (ka)</i>  <div n="P" />Much confusion exists concerning this substance as will become <div n="lb" />apparent from the material collected: <div n="P" />(1) Bpn, <i>karpūrādivarga</i> 120: it is also called <i>kapitthatvac</i> (the bark <div n="lb" />of <i>kapittha</i>). Acc. to the Hindī comm. (p. 262-263) the substance is <div n="lb" />described somewhere in Bhā. pra. as resembling <i>kaṅkola</i> and smelling <div n="lb" />like <i>kuṣṭha.</i> In the same comm. three different identifications are made [Page-531+ 39] <div n="lb" />mention of: a) <bot>PRUNUS CERASUS LINN.</bot>, b) <bot>GISEKIA PHARNACIOIDES <div n="lb" />LINN.</bot>, c) <bot>MUKIA SCABRELLA ARN.</bot> (Index Kewensis: <bot>MELOTHRIA <div n="lb" />MADERASPATANA COGN.</bot> = <bot>MUKIA SCABRELLA ARN.</bot> = <bot>MUKIA MADERA- <div n="lb" />SPATANA M. ROEM</bot>). <div n="P" />(2) DWH 2, p. 105-107: <bot>GISEKIA PHARNACIOIDES LINN.</bot>; p. 105: <div n="lb" />“This plant is called in Sanskrit <i>vāluka</i> and <i>elavāluka</i> on account of <div n="lb" />the number of large raphides contained in the leaves, and which give <div n="lb" />them the appearance of being full of sand (<i>vālu</i>).” (Raphides are <div n="lb" />minute intracellular crystals, usually of an acicular form). <div n="P" />(3) Gul: cherry tree (<bot>PRUNUS CERASUS LINN.</bot>). <div n="P" />(4) HB, p. 21: <bot>GISEKIA PHARNACIOIDES LINN.</bot>; ibid., footnote 70: <div n="lb" />“<i>elavālu</i> is mentioned Su. Sū. 38, 14, where Ḍa.'s comm. explains it as <div n="lb" />a reddish powder (<i>harivāluka</i>), resembling that of the seeds of the <div n="lb" /><i>kṛṣṇagandhā (kṛṣṇagandhikaphala).</i> The latter is a name of the horse- <div n="lb" />radish tree or <i>śigru</i> or <i>śobhāñjana;</i>” ibid., p. 91, footnote 74: “In <div n="lb" />the Phar. Ind. (= DWH) 2, p. 105, it is wrongly identified with <i>vāluka;</i> <div n="lb" />the seeds, supplied to me by a native druggist, seem to be simply those <div n="lb" />of chickweed.” <div n="P" />(5) HK: quotes the identifications of PW and Hoernle. <div n="P" />(6) Kav, p. 37: a kind of red powder made of some seeds obtainable <div n="lb" />of every native druggist, not identified; p. 294: a fragrant powder of <div n="lb" />a bark sold under that name; it is believed to come from the Spice <div n="lb" />Islands; p. 642: Gaṅgādhara takes it as implying <i>tejavala,</i> a kind of <div n="lb" />wood apparently dry but juicy within; it is brought from Nepal. <div n="P" />(7) KB 2, p. 1187-1188: <bot>GISEKIA PHARNACIOIDES LINN.</bot> <div n="P" />(8) MW: the fragrant bark of <bot>FERONIA ELEPHANTUM</bot> (<i>kapitthatvac</i>); <div n="lb" />a granular substance (apparently a vegetable of a reddish-brown <div n="lb" />colour, used as a drug and perfume). <div n="P" />(9) PW: the fragrant bark of <bot>FERONIA ELEPHANTUM</bot> (<i>kapitthatvac</i>), <div n="lb" />used medicinally. <div n="P" />(10) V 7, p. 67: <bot>GISEKIA PHARNACIOIDES.</bot> <div n="P" />(11) Vśs: name of a perfume; a red powder sold under that name; <div n="lb" />the seed of some plant. <div n="P" />(12) Ḍa. on Su. Sū. 38, 14 (printed ed., different from Hoernle's text): <div n="lb" />“a reddish powder (<i>harivāluka</i>), resembling the black, fragrant <i>kaṭpha-</i> <div n="lb" /><i>la;</i>” <i>kaṭphala</i> is usually identified as <bot>MYRICA NAGI THUNB.</bot>

lnum: 32

image: [530](https://www.sanskrit-lexicon.uni-koeln.de/scans/csl-apidev/servepdf.php?dict=snp&page=530)

cologne link: [एलवालु](https://sanskrit-lexicon.uni-koeln.de/scans/csl-apidev/getword.php?dict=snp&key=एलवालु)

